The Bible is a book of facts. It's about real people, real events, real history and real places.
In the Hebrew scriptures, there are at least 53 people confirmed archaeologically.
One example is Pharaoh Shishak of Egypt.
The Bible mentions his invasion of Judah, specifically dating it in the fifth year of Judean king Rehupua.
For a long time, the only record of that invasion was the one found in the Bible.
Then, a relief on the wall of a temple at Karnak, Egypt was discovered depicting Shishak with captives.
It also records names of conquered Israelite towns, many of which have been identified with biblical sites.
It also mentions the field of Abram, the earliest reference in Egyptian records to the biblical patriarch Abram.
This strengthens our confidence and faith in the Bible as God's word.
The Bible was written on perishable materials such as papyrus and parchment.
While no originals are known to exist today, the number of ancient copies available now is staggering.
Some 11,000 Hebrew and Greek manuscripts, more than for any other ancient piece of literature.
By comparing the earliest, most authoritative manuscripts, scholars can identify inaccuracies and mistakes that have crept in.
The vast majority of differences do not change the meaning at all.
One example is found at Luke 417, which says that Jesus opened the skull of Isaiah.
But some manuscripts say that he unrolled the skull.
But isn't the meaning the same?
God's message has even survived changes in language.
Writers of the Christian Greek scriptures quoted the Hebrew scriptures, but often from the Greek Septuagint translation.
At times, they paraphrase such quotations using slightly different wording, but the message remained the same.
And most of Jesus' words, likely spoken in 1st century Hebrew, were recorded in Greek.
Still, his message is clear.
Today, at least parts of God's word can be read in more than 3,000 languages.
The Bible's survival reveals a puzzling paradox.
Throughout history, people were willing to die to preserve the Bible and make it available to everyone.
Others were willing to kill, to prevent access to it and wipe it out of existence.
Why?
It's the book's content.
God's word is alive and exerts power.
It changes people's lives in ways that some welcome, but others resist violently at times.
For example, responding to Roman Emperor Diocletians' edict in 303 CE to destroy the sacred scriptures by fire,
Felix, the bishop of Tibyuka, reportedly said,
it is better for me to be burned than the sacred scriptures.
He paid with his life.
Efforts to destroy God's message for mankind continue today, but the word of our God endures forever.